v5.0.0-beta.7 (#3089)
mui-org/material-ui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.0.0-beta.7

_Nov 4, 2021_

> - 👁 Move virtualization logic to hook (#3079) @m4theushw

Reviewer: It is 100% internal, not sure we should highlight it

Reviewer 2: Definitely no.

```suggestion
- 💅 Reduce styles specificity to make simpler to override (#3012) @DanailH
```

- 🌍 Add hebrew localization (he-IL) (#3028) @ColdAtNight
- 📚 Documentation improvements
- 🐞 Bugfixes

### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.0.0-beta.7` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.0.0-beta.7`

> #### Breaking changes

Reviewer 2: You have to go on each merged PR and check if there're breaking changes and copy them here. For instance, #3002 has breaking changes. I'm not gonna copy here because the diff doesn't work correctly with code block included in the suggestion.

<img width="400" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42154031/140308335-0165b910-f596-4c10-a1b3-aa6181085b42.png" alt="image" style="max-width: 100%;">

#### Changes

> - [DataGrid] Add hebrew localization (he-IL) (#3028) @ColdAtNight

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Add Hebrew (heIL) locale (#3028) @ColdAtNight
```

- [DataGrid] Move virtualization logic to hook (#3079) @m4theushw
- [DataGrid] Revert year change in the MIT license (#3059) @oliviertassinari
- [DataGrid] Fix filtering of nullish numeric cells (#3070) @flaviendelangle

> - [DataGrid] Fix selecting 100k rows takes too long (#3077) @m4theushw

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Improve performance when selecting 100k rows (#3077) @m4theushw
```

> - [DataGrid] Fix `GridEditDateCell` does not handle timezone correctly (#2918) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fix `GridEditDateCell` to handle timezone correctly (#2918) @flaviendelangle
```

> - [DataGrid] Fix Keyboard navigation broken on page > 0 (#3074) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fix keyboard navigation on page > 0 (#3074) @flaviendelangle
```

- [DataGrid] Prevents bubbling in menu header (#3000) @alexfauquette

> - [DataGrid] `setCellMode` is providing the wrong params to `cellModeChange` event (#3025) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Fix wrong params provided to `cellModeChange` when `setCellMode` is called (#3025) @flaviendelangle
```

### Core

- [core] Adapt `useDemoData` for Tree Data (#2978) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Group update of MUI Core (#3055) @oliviertassinari
- [core] Ignore `*.tsbuildinfo` files (#3068) @m4theushw
- [core] Implement tree-based row management (#2996) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Invert Codesandbox examples on README (#3073) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Prefix selectors from `useGridContainerProps` with `unsafe` (#3002) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Reduce `setGridState` and `applyFilters` call when updating `filterModel` (#3023) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Upgrade monorepo (#3067) @m4theushw
- [core] Use official MUI repo as monorepo (#3084) @m4theushw
- [test] Retry each expect until success (#3027) @m4theushw

> - [scripts] Adapt change-log script to github dom modification (#3087) @alexfauquette

Reviewer 2: The only tags we use, besides the component name, is "core" or "test" or "docs".

```suggestion
- [core] Adapt changelog script to new GitHub DOM (#3087) @alexfauquette
```

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 5.0.0-beta.7

_Nov 4, 2021_

- 👁 Move virtualization logic to hook (#3079) @m4theushw

> - 🌍 Add hebrew localization (he-IL) (#3028) @ColdAtNight

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 🌍 Add Hebrew (heIL) locale (#3028) @ColdAtNight
```

- 📚 Documentation improvements
- 🐞 Bugfixes

### `@mui/x-data-grid@v5.0.0-beta.7` / `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@v5.0.0-beta.7`

#### Breaking changes

- [core] Prefix selectors from `useGridContainerProps` with `unsafe` (#3002) @flaviendelangle

>   We are temporarily making the dimension APIs of the grid private to be able to clean them in a future minor release. The current approach is causing a lot of useless re-renders.

Reviewer 2: No "we": https://www.notion.so/mui-org/Technical-documentation-7e55b517ac2e489a9ddb6d0f6dd765de

```suggestion
  The dimension APIs is being temporarily made private to allow to clean it in future minor releases. The current approach causes useless re-renders.
```

>   Please reach to us if you are really using any of those selectors to help us understand what are the community needs around this subject.

Reviewer 2: No "us"

```suggestion
  If you relay on any of these selectors, open an issue explaining the use case so that will be taken into account when refactoring them.
```

>   The following selectors were prefixed by `unstable_`. Use the provided alternatives.

Author: @flaviendelangle I'm not sure to get the point. The alternative is to use `unstable_gridContainerSizesSelector`?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The following selectors were prefixed with `unstable_`. Use the provided alternatives.
```

Side note: we have "unsafe" and "unstable" in the code base. Is "unstable" the correct one to use?

Author: From what I understand, `unsafe_` is for methods that have never been documented, and should not be used by the developers. Whereas `unstable_` will be available back after the refactoring, or at least method providing similar information.

Reviewer: It should be `unstable_` everywhere, it's my bad :/

Author: Do you want to correct it before release?

Reviewer: OK I'll do a quick PR

- [core] Remove outdated hooks requirements (#2939) @flaviendelangle
- [core] Remove test event (#2912) @m4theushw
- [core] Remove unused `GridSlotComponentProps` interface (#2911) @flaviendelangle

> - [core] Rename 'UNSTABLE*' prefix to 'unstable*' (#2931) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [core] Rename 'UNSTABLE_' prefix to 'unstable_' (#2931) @flaviendelangle
```
